Hi there.
This is Dana.
And welcome back.
Let's now look at the slicing operations.
The slicing operations are intermediate operations, as we mentioned earlier.
And we are going to look at three operations that fall under the slicing operations and they are distinct
limit and skip.
So slicing operations, as the name implies, are used to slice the string, just like the way we slice
a pizza.
This way we are able to focus on only a particular part of the string.
So slicing operations are mainly for slicing the stream.
So here for this demo I have created two new classes called Stream Operations and Data Extractor within
the package comp semantics, clear functional streams.
So earlier we had this class called Streams Demo.
So these are two new classes and we are going to use a very interesting use case and we will be using
the same use case for the subsequent lectures to OC.
And it's a very good use case for using streams.
So the use case is that we want to extract data from two different web services.
So let's say the two web services are Amazon and Barnes and Noble, and both of them have books and
given a keyword, they have to return the books matching the particular keyword, the titles that match
the particular keyword.
So we are not going to invoke any web services.
So we cannot do that, but we will just mimic that kind of a use case.
And I think in reality also, if we are going to use such kind of web services, we get back some data
in the form of XML or JSON and then we convert them into Java objects.
And we have to we may have to show it to the user.
So we may not store this data in the database, but we may just grab this data from these different
Web services and merge them and show it to the user.
So that can be one kind of a use case.
Sometimes we may have to do something like that.
So in that kind of a scenario, since we are not using the database, so we may have to put everything
in a collection store, everything in a collection, and we may have to manipulate the collection,
and that's where streams come into play.
So it's a very interesting use case for using streams.
So the data extractor here is a class that we have and the data extractor we just have two methods,
one representing Amazon.
So we call it as get from Amazon and we are passing a string.
And the other one is a similar method called Get from Barnes and Noble.
And once again we are passing a string, string, a keyword and then return a list of books here.
And the books book is actually an nested class within this new class called Stream Operations.
So here it is.
It's a static nested class.
And the fields that we have here are ISBN which is along, which is of long type ISBN is a unique identifier
of a book.
It's a 13 digit number and we have title rating of the book, the price of the book, and also the source
source can be either Amazon or Barnes Noble.
And we have the constructor for Initializing the Values, and we have a bunch of getters here for the
different fields.
So that's what we have.
And the actual invocation is performed here from the main method.
So we are invoking here it is, we are invoking Amazon first and we are passing this keyword Java and
the same thing we are doing it we are doing for Barnes and Noble too.
We are invoking the method and passing the same string.
So each of these methods return a list of books and we are accumulating those books into this array
list called books.
So first we are adding the Amazon books into it, and then we are adding the books from Barnes and Noble.
So within these methods we are simply returning the list of books.
In fact, the keyword is also not used here.
So we just we are just creating ten instances of books in the Amazon method.
And we, you can see that we are passing the data here.
So the first one is the ISBN and it's a long so we are passing along and for the title, I'm just to
keep it simple, I'm just using the simple names like Java one, two, three and so on.
And then we have the rating here and we also have the price and the source name, which is Amazon.
So all of these are collected into a list here.
So we are using our resort as a list and we are retaining the list of books.
So the next static method is the Barnes and Noble.
And just like the Amazon method, we have seven elements that we are retaining and the first four are
identical books.
But since it's from Barnes and Noble, we will pass.
And for the source name and it has its own price because the price need not be same for the same book
into different sources, and it can have its own rating too.
So for the Java one, it has a rating of 3.9 in this source and the price of 20, but here it has four
and a price of 25 and ESPN is also kept similar in both for both the books.
If the books are identical because it has been, as I said earlier, uniquely identifies a book.
So the first four books are also present in Amazon and the last three books are unique to or unique
to Barnes and Noble.
So once again, we are returning a list here.
So that's the use case that we are going to use.
And the first thing that we are going to do is we are invoking this method called slice and passing
the books.
So we have got the books from both the sources and we are passing it.
And here is the slice method, a template method, and we just have the print statement here.
So it takes the list of books.
And what it means to do is it needs to print at most five distinct books with a rating greater than
or equal to 4.5.
So that's what we need to do here.
So we want distinct because there are some books that are common to both the sources.
Now in the database world, you would use a query like this, you would say select distinct of ISBN,
for instance, from book where rating is greater than or equal to 4.5.
And we would use this function called limit, we would use this function called limit.
And we will say because we need only the five books.
So we are saying we only need the five books.
So that's how we specify in database.
We will use this clause called limit and to get the distinct books, we will use the distinct function.
So even in in streams we have a method called distinct in order to remove the duplicates to get only
the unique values.
And we also have a method called limit in order to get only five items.
So the terminology is also kept similar here.
So that's very nice.
So let's go ahead and implement the operations.
So the collection is books, so let's just say books.
And let's invoke the stream method.
So this is a pipeline that we are going to bear and the rating has to be greater than or equal to 4.5.
So let's filter.
Let's define our lambda.
So each element is a book.
So we have a method called Rating.
In the book class, master class.
So we'll just say greater than.
Okay.
Now, let's gradually build this.
So first, let's put a map here.
So we have the filter method where we are applying this predicate so that only if the book is greater
than or equal to 4.5, then it will be passed to the map method.
And in the map method let's transform the book into a string.
Let's just get the title.
So let's define a function.
We know that the map takes a function, so it will take a book as an input and it will return the title.
And we need to print.
So let's use a for each this method here and the action is system not out.
So we can use a method reference here and instead of using a lambda we can use a method reference because
there is already a method.
So for each is the terminal operation and these two are intermediate operations.
So let's return an instance upstream.
We know that.
So if you print it.
So we have all of these here.
But as you can see, there are some duplicates here.
Java three, Java three here, Java four, because they are common to both the sources.
So now we need to add a method called distinct.
So there is a method called distinct in the stream interface and you can look up later.
So this is a stream method, but the distinct method is going to remove the duplicates and in order
to remove the duplicates, it is going to use equals method.
It's going to it's going to use the equals method and it's going to invoke it on each of the books.
So equals method, we can define an equals method.
So the criteria can be that we can use the ISBN to filter out the duplicates.
So let's go ahead and add the equals method in the book class here.
So let's say.
Going to source, let's say, generate hash code and equals recall from effective Java that if you are
going to override equals, we also need to override hashCode method.
So let's do that.
But let's just use only ISBN, ISBN because ISBN in uniquely identifies the box.
So now we have hash code and equals.
Let's also add the to override the two strings method which will come in handy later as we will see.
So let's just source once again right click source and generate two string and for two string.
Let's use all of the fields.
So that's all we have.
So the distinct method would use this equals and it would filter out those books that are duplicates
and it's going to use ISBN for that.
So let's go ahead and run it again.
There you go.
So we have only unique elements now.
Now the goal is and all of them have a rating of greater than or equal to 4.5.
You can check later once you download the file.
So let's go ahead.
And we also need the top five elements.
So let's say limit and limit.
Well, take the size.
So.
Now if you run it, we will see that we have only five elements here.
This is the output.
So it's we are printing the five distinct books with the rating greater than or equal to 4.5.
Now, after the five books are retrieved, we are printing them.
The sixth book is not going to be printed, so limit is called as a short circuit operation.
So it's what it's going to do is it's going to abort the pipeline after passing five elements.
So it passes the five items.
And after that, it's not going to pull any more elements.
So it's not going to even process any more elements.
It's not going to for the first five elements, it's going to seek the elements from the stream.
So it's going to pull the elements.
But after five elements, it's not going to do that anymore.
So that's the limit.
There is also another operation called Skip.
So which does the exact opposite of?
Off limit.
Which means that it's going to skip the first five elements.
And after that, from the sixth element onwards, it's going to pass it to the downstream methods,
to the downstream operations.
So let's do that.
So it's going to skip the first file here.
There you go.
So you have the other elements.
It's not going to print the first fall.
So that's the exact opposite.
Sometimes we might want that.
We might want to skip certain number of elements.
For instance, if you're getting some data from a source and the first three elements or the first three
items could be some advertised events.
So you might want to skip them.
So that's when it will come in handy.
But Skip is not.
It's still going to look at the first five elements, but it's just that it's not going to pass them
to the downstream operations, so it's not going to randomly jump to the fifth item.
It is still going to pull each of the elements.
Let's actually look at that.
So there is a method called peak which can be used to peek into the stream so you can actually see what
the current stream element is.
So let's do that.
So of course, the input element is the book.
Let's print the title.
Let's just run this.
So.
So here it is.
So you can look at the items here.
So we have the the peak, but it's going to pass after it skips the first five elements.
Only then it's going to pass it to the downstream to the downstream operations.
So you can see that it's not doing any random access, but it is still accessing all of the elements.
So that's what that's what the Skip Skip is doing.
And after Skip also, you can still use limit or limit operation.
So you can have another limit after skip.
You can also do that.
So that's those are the three operations distinct skip and limit list in case more of like a filter.
But skip and limit actually makes sense when we say when we call them as slice operations.
So that's that's what we have.
And we can also peek here.
Let's also do let's let me comment this and let's look at the output here.
We.
It's just rating here.
So here it is.
So this is what is being printed by the peak, and then the element is being passed to the downstream
operation.
So we are only processing the first five.
That's what we can see.
And then the downstream operation will just print only the title, not the rating.
So next thing is I just want to show the current operations we will be looking at correct.
Later.
But just I just want to show at least one of the functions because collect is an important method,
although it's not related to slicing.
So let's just say we want to collect this data into a list.
Collect is a terminal operation, so we need to remove the current one.
And that is.
A factory class called collectors and we will set to list so the for each method it returns a void but
this one actually returns a list.
This is how this is how you would do.
So you're going to collect the stream into a list.
So this would be less of a strain.
Because we have transformed the map has transformed the book into.
Interesting.
So the input was a stream of book which is which got converted into a stream of string.
Any tempo of this.
Kosciuszko.
That's it.
So we are printing the books here.
So that's how we are collecting.
So we are returning a result here.
We are getting a list of string and we are doing that.
So that's the collect method.
So we will look at it later again.
Only thing I want to say is filter actually takes an input and it produces a same type of input.
Whereas a map can take an input like a stream and it will produce a stream.
It can produce a stream of another type, just like the way we have seen.
So let me just also make it a little bit more clear by doing this.
So let's just take.
This part here.
So this is going to limit.
So this is the limit is also an intermediate operation.
So it's going to return a stream of books.
Okay.
Now we can.
Invoke the map method on this.
And this would return a stream of string.
So it takes a stream of book under it and it returns a stream of string.
So let's call it as.
I go straight.
And we can invoke the each on this.
So for each is here.
She's got to this.
So we are just breaking it into individual components instead of chaining them all together.
So it just gives you a better clarity.
So this is the declarative style programming.
So let me just comment the entire thing here.
There you go.
So we have the output.
So the map method here essentially takes a stream of book and it returns a stream of string.
So it need not be of the same type.
So that's about it.
So that's the slicing operations and that's it.
And thank you and happy coding.